AUTOGITUPDATER — PROJECT EXPLAINED
Written for Synergicvans. Documentation updated 22 September 2026.

1. THE ANSWER: WILL IT RUN WITH MY COMPUTER OFF?

Yes. Once the workflow is installed and enabled on GitHub, you can close the
website, close your browser, disconnect your home internet, and switch off your
computer for weeks. GitHub's servers keep the schedule and start a cloud runner
for each job. Your computer does not perform those daily jobs.

This does not mean a program runs continuously, 24 hours a day. GitHub starts a
temporary computer when a run is due, executes the steps, then shuts it down.

The schedule is best effort. GitHub may delay or drop jobs, and disabled Actions,
permission restrictions, service issues, or usage limits can interrupt runs.
The website being closed or unavailable does not itself stop an installed
workflow. Disabling the workflow does stop future scheduled runs.

2. WHERE EACH PART IS DEPLOYED

Public website:
https://autogitupdater-synergicvans.avnish123pandeys.chatgpt.site/

It is published through Sites, on its Cloudflare-backed hosting infrastructure.
It serves static HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and a setup template. It is not GitHub
Pages, and it is not hosted on your laptop.

Source code and generated files:
https://github.com/Synergicvans/AutoGitUpdater

Scheduled execution and logs:
https://github.com/Synergicvans/AutoGitUpdater/actions

Daily jobs run on GitHub-hosted Ubuntu runners. GitHub provides that computer
and the temporary credential for pushing to the repository.

The localhost address http://127.0.0.1:4173 was only a development preview on
your computer. It stops working when its local server stops. Use the public
HTTPS address above for the deployed website.

The website source is mirrored under website/dist in your GitHub repository.
Sites also has its own deployment source repository. Editing the GitHub copy
does not automatically redeploy the website: changed website assets must be
published through Sites. README-only changes do not require a website redeploy.

3. HOW THE PARTS CALL EACH OTHER

Setup and control, while the website is open:
Your browser -> Sites: download the webpage and JavaScript.
Your browser -> api.github.com: authenticate and request repository actions.
GitHub -> Your browser: return account, repository, workflow, and run details.

Daily automation, even while the website and laptop are closed:
GitHub scheduler
  -> starts Ubuntu runner
  -> checks out the repository's current default branch
  -> runs generator tests
  -> generates and checks example 1 -> commits and pushes it
  -> generates and checks example 2 -> commits and pushes it
  -> generates and checks example 3 -> commits and pushes it
  -> finishes the job and shuts down the runner.

The website is a control panel. It does not wake up at 7 PM or call GitHub every
day. GitHub reads the schedule from a workflow file stored in the repository.

4. WHAT HAPPENS AT 7 PM

The workflow file is .github/workflows/daily-update.yml, at the repository ROOT.
GitHub does not recognize scripts/.github/workflows as a workflow directory.

Its cron expression is: 30 13 * * *
The five fields mean: minute 30, hour 13, every day of the month, every month,
every day of the week. This workflow uses UTC. 13:30 UTC is 19:00 in India.

The workflow has two triggers:
- schedule: GitHub requests the daily run.
- workflow_dispatch: you request a manual run through GitHub or the website.

There is no push trigger in this workflow. Updating the README or pushing the
generated changes does not itself trigger another run.

The job uses ubuntu-latest and has a five-minute timeout. The concurrency group
prevents this workflow's jobs from updating the same repository simultaneously;
a new request does not cancel an already-running job.

The runner downloads the latest default branch using actions/checkout. It
executes the generator tests first. Then it calls the same reusable action three
times with slot values 1, 2, and 3.

5. WHAT THE GENERATED CODE ACTUALLY DOES

scripts/generate-update.mjs calculates today's India-calendar date and chooses
two random whole numbers from 1 to 99. It writes a small arithmetic function.

Illustrative example (the actual numbers vary):
  function transform(value) {
    return value * 7 + 12;
  }
  if (transform(2) !== 26) throw new Error('Example check failed');

The generator executes the example with a time limit before saving it. A date
comment records when that example was generated. Three bounded files are used:
- Project_github1/example-1.js
- Project_github1/example-2.js
- Project_github1/example-3.js

These are real file changes and real commits, clearly labeled as automated.
They are not meaningful daily features or evidence of manual coding.

The date marker is also the progress record. If a file already has today's
date, the generator skips it. If a run completed two files before failing, a
retry skips those two and completes the third. Dates in the future cause an
error rather than backdating. An unrelated file without the expected marker is
not overwritten.

The limit applies to this routine while its markers remain intact. Human edits,
setup commits, and documentation commits are separate. Each slot computes its
date when it runs, so a rare run spanning India midnight can span two dates.
Do not delete the markers to repeatedly manufacture updates.

6. COMMIT VERSUS PUSH

A commit records a snapshot in the runner's local Git checkout. A push uploads
the new commit to GitHub. A local commit alone would disappear when the
temporary runner is removed unless it is pushed.

.github/actions/update-example/action.yml runs the generator and invokes
stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action. That action stages only the corresponding
generated example, commits it if it changed, and pushes it. This happens
separately for each of the three slots.

Author name: Synergicvans.
Author email: the account's numeric-ID GitHub noreply address.
Messages: chore(auto): update generated example 1/3, 2/3, and 3/3.

Normal pushes are used, not force pushes. A conflicting remote change can fail
the job safely. Inspect the logs and retry after resolving the conflict.

7. TWO DIFFERENT TOKENS — DIFFERENT JOBS

Website personal access token:
You enter it in the browser to let the interface call GitHub on your behalf.
It is sent directly to api.github.com in an Authorization header. The app keeps
it only in page memory, not localStorage, cookies, the repository, or a server
database. Disconnecting or reloading clears it from the app's memory.

Workflow GITHUB_TOKEN:
GitHub automatically creates this temporary credential for a run. The workflow
requests contents: write so the runner can push its changes. Checkout configures
Git authentication for the run. This credential is independent of the personal
token you entered into the website.

Therefore, closing the webpage, losing the in-memory personal token, or letting
that personal token expire does not itself stop the existing scheduled workflow.

For website setup and management, use a fine-grained token restricted to the
chosen repository with Contents, Workflows, and Actions read/write permissions.
Repository creation needs appropriate creation permission; creating a repository
with a README directly on GitHub first is the simplest alternative. A classic
repo + workflow token is broader and is described by the interface as an option.

At the last live test, your token could connect and load run history, but GitHub
denied Stop with HTTP 403. The token's effective write permissions or an account
policy need checking. Read access alone does not prove write access. The failed
Stop request did not disable the existing routine.

8. WHAT EVERY WEBSITE BUTTON CALLS

All API paths below are relative to https://api.github.com.
R means /repos/OWNER/REPOSITORY.
W means R/actions/workflows/daily-update.yml.

Connect:
GET /user validates the token and reads the GitHub account.

Load:
GET R reads repository information and checks access.
GET W reads workflow state.
GET W/runs?per_page=5 reads recent runs.

Set up daily updates:
Downloads template.json from the website.
Reads the default branch reference, commit, and recursive file tree.
Checks for conflicting files and the .autogitupdater.json installation marker.
Customizes the commit author for the connected account.
POST R/git/trees creates the new set of file contents.
POST R/git/commits creates a setup commit.
PATCH R/git/refs/heads/BRANCH moves the branch forward with force=false.
It then refreshes the status. Registration of a new workflow may take time.
For a repository already managed by this app, setup may replace its managed
workflow/script files with the bundled template. Custom edits there should be
reviewed before reinstalling.

Create AutoGitUpdater:
POST /user/repos creates a repository with a README, subject to token permission.
The checkbox controls its visibility. This button does not install the workflow;
use Set up daily updates afterward.

Run today:
POST W/dispatches requests a run on the default branch.
A successful request means queued/requested, not finished.
Date checks mean a same-day rerun can succeed with zero new commits.

Stop:
PUT W/disable disables future runs.
The app then lists pending/active runs and requests cancellation using
POST R/actions/runs/RUN_ID/cancel. Cancellation can race with job completion.
Already-pushed commits remain. Check GitHub for final cancellation status.

Resume:
PUT W/enable enables future runs. Missed days are not backfilled.

Refresh:
Reloads workflow state and the latest five runs. The page does not continuously
poll in the background.

Disconnect:
Clears the page's connection state. It does NOT call Disable workflow.

9. THE CONTRIBUTION CHART AND THE WORKFLOW CHART

GitHub's contribution chart is the calendar of green squares on your PROFILE.
GitHub calculates it from eligible activity; this app cannot directly paint it.
One square represents a day, not a commit. Three eligible commits contribute
to that day's count; they do not produce three separate squares. Color intensity
depends on GitHub's contribution scale, so no exact shade is guaranteed.

Author email association, repository eligibility, and the default branch matter.
Private contribution display is controlled by your GitHub profile settings.
Graph updates can lag. The profile's day grouping need not match the app's
India-time duplicate check in every timezone situation.

The Actions workflow graph is different: it shows jobs and execution status.
A green success indicator means the job succeeded, not necessarily that three
new commits were made. Our same-day rerun proves that distinction.

The website currently shows a Recent runs LIST, not a contribution heatmap or
live profile chart. Its 19:00 panel shows the configured standard schedule, not
a live countdown. Recent run timestamps use your browser's timezone. If you
manually edit the workflow schedule, the website's fixed schedule text does
not automatically detect that change.

10. FILE AND MODULE GUIDE

.github/workflows/daily-update.yml
  The scheduler, permissions, runner, timeout, concurrency, tests, and three calls.

.github/actions/update-example/action.yml
  Reusable two-step recipe for one example: generate, then commit/push.

scripts/generate-update.mjs
  Node.js generator, date checks, random arithmetic, validation, bounded file write.

scripts/update.sh
  Optional Bash wrapper for running one generator slot. The workflow directly
  uses the .mjs generator, so this wrapper is not its main entry point.

Project_github1/example-1.js through example-3.js
  The generated code and durable per-file date markers.

website/dist/index.html
  The webpage structure, labels, forms, controls, and content security policy.

website/dist/style.css
  Colors, typography, layout, button states, and responsive screen sizing.

website/dist/app.js
  In-memory connection state, direct GitHub API calls, setup, control actions,
  status rendering, errors, and prevention of simultaneous UI operations.
  Main functions: api, connect, loadRepo, install, refresh, stop, showRuns.
  perform handles busy/error states; controls updates enabled/disabled buttons.

website/dist/template.json
  Bundled workflow, composite action, generator, wrapper, and generator tests
  used when installing the automation into another repository. It is a snapshot:
  changes to generator/workflow source require updating this template too.

website/dist/favicon.svg
  Browser-tab icon.

.autogitupdater.json
  Installation marker naming this application and format version. It contains
  no credential and is not the daily progress counter.

scripts/preview.mjs
  Optional local development HTTP server on 127.0.0.1:4173. Not part of cloud runs.

tests/generate-update.test.mjs
  Tests date boundaries, same-day skipping, partial recovery, next-day updates,
  bounded valid output, bad slots, future dates, and unrelated-file protection.

tests/website.test.mjs
  Tests API authorization handling, empty successful responses, setup conflict
  protection, cancellation, error messages, and the read-only status tool.
  These tests mock GitHub; they do not replace full live permission testing.

README.md / AUTOGITUPDATER_EXPLAINED.txt
  Project documentation and this Notepad-compatible explanation.

AUTOGITUPDATER_PLAN.md / PROJECT_STATUS.md
  Implementation decisions, progress, evidence, and remaining verification work.

THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md
  Attribution and pinned revisions for reused components.

.gitignore
  Keeps common local dependencies, secrets, temporary archives, and runtime files
  out of normal Git staging.

website/.openai/hosting.json (local deployment checkout)
  Sites project ID and static output directory. It is in the separate Sites
  source repository, not required for GitHub Actions to run.

11. TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES

Git: records commits and synchronizes repository history.
GitHub: stores source and generated commits.
GitHub Actions: schedules and executes jobs.
Ubuntu runner: temporary Linux computer supplied by GitHub.
Node.js: runs the generator and tests; it provides the used built-in libraries.
Bash: runs short shell commands in the composite action.
actions/checkout: downloads/configures the repository on the runner.
git-auto-commit-action: detects changes, commits, and pushes them.
HTML/CSS/JavaScript: builds the static browser interface.
GitHub REST API: lets the interface read and change GitHub resources.
Sites: publishes and serves the control-panel website.
WebMCP: optional browser integration exposing get_automation_status. That tool
only reports currently loaded, non-secret state; it does not start or stop jobs.

No AI model generates code during the daily job. Random numbers and a small
fixed template produce the examples. ChatGPT/Codex helped build the project but
does not need to remain running for its scheduled operation.

12. WHAT YOU NEED TO INSTALL

To use the public site and cloud workflow: nothing. Use your browser and GitHub.
To develop/test locally: install Node.js and optionally Git, then from the
project root run:
  node --test tests/generate-update.test.mjs tests/website.test.mjs
  node scripts/preview.mjs

There are no npm dependencies to install for this static site and generator.
A local preview is optional and never required for the daily cloud job.

13. HOW TO CHECK, STOP, AND RESUME WITHOUT THE WEBSITE

Open the repository's Actions tab, then select AutoGitUpdater.
Use Run workflow for a manual test. Open the run and inspect the job logs.
Open the repository commit history to verify exactly what changed.

To stop future jobs: workflow options -> Disable workflow.
To stop a current job: open the run -> Cancel workflow.
To resume: Enable workflow.
Closing the browser is not a stop command.

14. WHAT HAS ACTUALLY BEEN VERIFIED

The first manual cloud run succeeded and created three separate commits
attributed to Synergicvans. A second attempt succeeded with no additional commit:
https://github.com/Synergicvans/AutoGitUpdater/actions/runs/35759176731

Seven local tests passed. The public website was deployed and opened
successfully. A live browser token connected and loaded actual workflow history.
Stop was denied by GitHub for that token; full live website write/setup testing
remains pending suitable permissions. A future scheduled run was not yet
observed at the time these records were written.

This is a low-volume automation demonstration, not proof of daily human work.
There is no guarantee of exact execution time, an uninterrupted streak, or a
particular contribution-chart color. Public schedules can be disabled after
60 days without repository activity; always check actual Actions status.

15. SOURCES AND ATTRIBUTION

Scheduling:
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/events-that-trigger-workflows#schedule

Contribution rules:
https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/reference/profile-contributions-reference

Reused MIT-licensed components:
https://github.com/actions/checkout
https://github.com/stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action

Inspiration:
https://github.com/zhafranzainal/green-commit
Its implementation was not copied because no reuse license was found.
